# Github Classroom Getting Started Guide

## 0.  Learning About Version Control Platforms

   Github is an online version control and code hosting platform. If you are not familiar with version control systems such as github, you may want to familiarize yourself with their features and functionality before you begin programming for this course. Using this platform for the course enables simplified distribution and submission of assignments, and makes it easier to provide tailored help or feedback for specific problems students may have in a given assignment. All information that may be needed, from every change made to a specific file (both insertions and deletions) to the time those changes were committed to the file will be stored by github and viewable should you need to see past version information. For this reason it is also recommended that every time you make a commit to some code that you add a relevant commit note which gives a brief description of what the changes made were meant to accomplish. This helps if you ever need to go back and see why something was done or what was changed. 
  
   Using a version control platform also allows you access to some advanced features that can make working on code easier. For instance, you can make separate branches of a given project or assignment in order to work on separate parts of the code individually or try multiple implementations of the same assignment simultaneously. Additionally, if linked with an IDE like VSCode properly, you can have code written locally in the IDE pushed to the web repository without needing to manually upload files yourself should you prefer not writing the code on github classroom directly. 

## 1.  Checking Out Assignments

   The first thing you will need to do when an assignment is given is click the link to accept the assignment. Accepting the assignment checks out a copy of the assignment in your own personal repository inside the classroom. The repository should follow the format https://github.com/<CourseName\>/<AssignmentName\>-<YourUsername\> or something similar. This link should always be able to take you straight to the given assignment if you did not want to navigate through github classroom every time. Having the copy checked out means that it is now your personal copy of the code and you can make whatever changes you need to any of the files in the repository.

## 2.  Doing the Assignments

   All assignments should have a readme file or associated handout with the instructions and tasks you need to accomplish. The most straightforward method for writing code is editing files directly in the github classroom web interface. As mentioned in Section 0, there are ways to link IDEs to the repository so that you can work on code locally and then push it to the repository, but that is not required. When you edit a file on github it is important to remember that your changes are not saved unless you commit them, there should be a small button to Commit Changes visible on the page when you are working on a file. Next to the button is a text box which is where you can upload comments about what the changes you just implemented did or addressed. Adding commit notes to your commits in a way that makes it clear what your commit changes will help you follow what you have been doing as well as enable people who may assist you see exactly what you were doing and why.
  
## 3.  Submitting(Grading) Assignments

   Assignments will largely be graded automatically by running a set of test cases on the submitted code. These test cases may do anything from verify your code doesn't crash to checking that its output is correct given a specific set of inputs. Grading will generally be based upon the submitted code's success against all of the given test cases for assignment. Whenever you commit a change, github classroom will attempt to test the submitted code against the set test cases. The tests can vary in complexity, so passing one test of a certain format does not necessarily imply you will pass all the tests of the same format. On the front page of your assignment repository, there should be a section where you can see the results of running the test cases in the form of a small green CHECK or a red X based on whether the code passed or failed the checks. Clicking this symbol will show you more detail about the test and results. An X means there is an error in your code somewhere that needs to be addressed. If you have little or no experience reading console output for tracing and debugging code issues you will want to familiarize yourself with that to fully utilize test case outputs and make troubleshooting easier.
